1 )Find the titles of all movies directed by Steven Spielberg

SELECT title FROM movie
WHERE director  = "Steven Spielberg";

E.T.
Raiders of the Lost Ark

2)Find all years that have a movie that received a rating of 4 or 5, and sort them in increasing order.

SELECT  DISTINCT m.year FROM rating r
INNER JOIN movie m 
ON r.mid = m.mid  
WHERE  r.stars BETWEEN 4 AND 5  ORDER BY rating_date ASC;

1937
1981
2009
1939


3)Find the titles of all movies that have no ratings

SELECT m.title , r.stars from movie m 
LEFT JOIN rating r
ON m.mid  = r.mid
WHERE r.stars IS NULL;

Star Wars null	
Titanic	  null

4)Some reviewers didn't provide a date with their rating. Find the names of all reviewers who have ratings with a NULL value for the date

SELECT distinct re.name,r.rating_date FROM reviewer re
LEFT JOIN rating r 
ON r.rid =re.rid 
WHERE rating_date IS NULL ;

Daniel Lewis	null
Chris Jackson	null

5)Write a query to return the ratings data in a more readable format: reviewer name, movie title, stars, and ratingDate. Also, sort the data, first by reviewer name, then by movie title, and lastly by number of 
stars.

select   re.name,m.title, r.stars ,r.rating_date 
FROM movie m  INNER JOIN  rating r 
ON  m.mid = r.mid INNER JOIN reviewer re
ON re.rid = r.rid ORDER BY re.name , m.title ,r.stars ASC; 


Ashley White	E.T.	               3     2011-01-02
Brittany Harris	Raiders of the Lost Ark	2	2011-01-30
Brittany Harris	Raiders of the Lost Ark	4	2011-01-12
Brittany Harris	The Sound of Music	2	2011-01-20
Chris Jackson	E.T.	               2      2011-01-22
Chris Jackson	Raiders of the Lost Ark	4	null
Chris Jackson	The Sound of Music	3	2011-01-27
Daniel Lewis	Snow White	         4	null
Elizabeth Thomas	Avatar	         3	 2011-01-15
Elizabeth Thomas	Snow White	5	2011-01-19
James Cameron	Avatar	                5	2011-01-20
Mike Anderson	Gone with the Wind	3	2011-01-09
Sarah Martinez	Gone with the Wind	2	2011-01-22
Sarah Martinez	Gone with the Wind	4	2011-01-27

6)select re.name,m.title from movie as m,rating as r1,Rating as r2, Reviewer as re
where r1.rID=r2.rID
and r1.mID=r2.mID
and m.mID=r1.mID
and re.rID=r1.rID
and r1.ratingDate<r2.ratingDate
and r1.stars<r2.stars;

'Sarah Martinez', 'Gone with the Wind'


7)select m.title,max(r.stars) from movie as m inner join rating as r on m.mID=r.mID
group by m.mID order by m.title;

Avatar	5
E.T.	3
Gone with the Wind	4
Raiders of the Lost Ark	4
Snow White	5



8)select m.title,abs(max(r.stars)-min(r.stars)) as rating_spread from movie as 
m inner join rating as r on m.mID=r.mID group by r.mID order by rating_spread desc,m.title;

Avatar	2
Gone with the Wind	2
Raiders of the Lost Ark	2
E.T.	1
Snow White	1
The Sound of Music	1


9)select avg(first.avg)-avg(next.avg) from (select avg(stars) as avg from rating,Movie where rating.mID=Movie.mID 
and Movie.year<1980
group by rating.mID)as first,
(select avg(stars) as avg from rating,Movie where rating.mID=Movie.mID 
and Movie.year>1980
group by rating.mID) as next;


10) Find the names of all reviewers who rated Gone with the Wind

select distinct re.name ,re.rid from reviewer re
INNER JOIN  rating r 
ON re.rid = r.rid
INNER JOIN movie m 
ON m.mid = r.mid
WHERE m.title = 'Gone with the Wind'; 


Sarah Martinez	201
Mike Anderson	204

11) For any rating where the reviewer is the same as the director of the movie, return the reviewer name, movie title, and number of stars. (1 point possible)

select  re.name,m.title ,r.stars from movie m inner join reviewer re 
on re.name  = m.director  
inner join rating r 
on r.mid  = m.mid  group by re.name;

James Cameron	Avatar	3

12) Return all reviewer names and movie names together in a single list, alphabetized. 

select distinct  re.name,  m.title from reviewer re inner join rating r on r.rid = re.rid 

inner join movie m on m.mid = r.mid 
order by re.name,m.title ASC;

Ashley White	     E.T.
Brittany Harris	     Raiders of the Lost Ark
Brittany Harris	     The Sound of Music
Chris Jackson	     E.T.
Chris Jackson	     Raiders of the Lost Ark
Chris Jackson	     The Sound of Music
Daniel Lewis	     Snow White
Elizabeth Thomas     Avatar
Elizabeth Thomas     Snow White
James Cameron	     Avatar
Mike Anderson	    Gone with the Wind
Sarah Martinez	    Gone with the Wind


13) Find the titles of all movies not reviewed by Chris Jackson.

select m.title from movie as m inner join rating r on r.mID=m.mID
where r.rID !=(select rID from reviewer where name="Chris Jackson");

Gone with the Wind
Gone with the Wind
Snow White
The Sound of Music
Raiders of the Lost Ark
Raiders of the Lost Ark
Gone with the Wind
Avatar
Snow White
Avatar
E.T.


15)For each rating that is the lowest (fewest stars) currently in the database, return the reviewer name, movie title, and number of stars. (1 point possible)
 

select re.name ,r.stars,m.title  from reviewer re 
inner join rating r  inner join movie m 
on r.rid = re.rid  AND  r.mid  = m.mid where r.stars = 
(select min(stars) from rating)
group by m.title,re.name;


Sarah Martinez	2	Gone with the Wind
Brittany Harris	2	The Sound of Music
Brittany Harris	2	Raiders of the Lost Ark
Chris Jackson	2	E.T.


17)Find the names of all reviewers who have contributed three or more ratings.

select count(re.rid),re.name from reviewer re inner join rating r 

on re.rid  = r.rid  group by re.name having count(re.rid )>=3;


3	Brittany Harris
3	Chris Jackson

18)Some directors directed more than one movie. For all such directors, return the titles of all movies directed by them, along with the director name. Sort by director name, then movie title.

select count(director)  from movie;
select director ,count(*) as Total from movie 
group by director having count(*)>1;


Steven Spielberg	2
James Cameron	        2

19 )Find the movie(s) with the highest average rating. Return the movie title(s) and average rating. (Hint: This query is more difficult to write in SQLite than other systems; you might think of it as finding the highest average rating and then choosing the movie(s) with that average rating.) (1 point possible)
select max(star) from (select  m.director ,m.title,avg(r.stars)  as star from movie m 
inner join rating r 
on m.mid  = r.mid group by m.mid ) r;

4.5000

20) Find the movie(s) with the lowest average rating. Return the movie title(s) and average rating. (Hint: This query may be more difficult to write in SQLite than other systems; you might think of it as finding the lowest average rating and then choosing the movie(s) with that average rating.) (1 point possible)

select min(star) from (select  m.director ,m.title,avg(r.stars)  as star from movie m inner join rating r 
on m.mid  = r.mid 
group by m.mid ) r;

2.5000

21) For each director, return the director's name together with the title(s) of the movie(s) they directed that received the highest rating among all of their movies, and the value of that rating. Ignore movies whose director is NULL. (1 point possible)

select  m.director ,m.title,max(r.stars) from movie m inner join rating r 
on m.mid  = r.mid where m.director is not null 
group by m.director,m.title ;

Victor Fleming	Gone with the Wind	4
Robert Wise	The Sound of Music	3
Steven Spielberg	E.T.	3
James Cameron	Avatar	5
Steven Spielberg	Raiders of the Lost Ark	4

